you will never be shallow enough no
matter how hard you try to be shallow
and tell yourself that you only care
about a pretty face and you only care
about money and you only care about
having great sex you don't you care
about all kinds of things you care about
your own dignity your own pride your own
sense of leading a meaningful life your
objectives to make the world a better
place even if you think you don't if you
support me on patreon you will know that
I'm actually very much open to
suggestions for video topics that I
answer questions to come from fans
sometimes they get a single-line comment
from one of my supporters and it becomes
a 40 minute video and I just ask my
girlfriend is there anything on your
mind girlfriends are sitting with you
off camera is there anything on your
mind
you'd want me to make a video about and
she pointed out astutely that I have
made many many videos warning about the
dangers in open relationships in
so-called polyamory I have a lot of
videos about this that has this kind of
cautionary if not castigating tone when
talking about open relationships so much
so that I have viewers who watch the
channel for years who are then shocked
to find out that I'm in an open
relationship and then I'm in favor of
open relationship generally several
people watched Channel four years didn't
know that and I was like oh like did you
not read like the description below that
video as I stated really bluntly but I
mean this is a kind of a recurring motif
for me in many ways because like I
talked about a vegan diet and vegan
activism but a lot of what I'm saying is
really cautionary it's really getting to
the the moral of the story I'm like
here's what you have to be worried about
I don't do uncritical cheerleading for
ecological activism for vegan activism
for animal rights even on issues like
war and peace you know we talk about
foreign policy
so we've just gone through this whole
epoch of you know the war in Syria at no
point was I simply cheerleading for one
side or another I wasn't just saying war
to Sainte peace or just saying
intervention or the same against its
there's there's sort of cautionary toned
everything I say about these things and
I'd like to thank a sort of analytical
tone now look guys it may be that I'd
have more YouTube viewers if I had this
kind of cheerleading quality of my
videos but I actually do not make my
content for the stupidest 60% I don't
want to cater to those people I don't
want to cater to the people who just you
know or here on the internet looking for
excuses for their own bad behavior or
looking to you know mmmmmm who are
looking for cheerleaders maybe we can
leave it at that so on the other hand um
I think there's an interesting sort of
hypocrisy and what's going on right now
with the criticism of venecia right
where as the Internet is want to do
people have simply taken it too far um
there's really no point in criticizing
anisia and his you know failure of an
open relationship you know bizarre and
morally disturbing elements of his own
relator there's no point criticizing it
if you actually think the guy is a
monster there's a point in criticizing
it if you look at this guy and think wow
he is human all too human and there's
something for all of us to learn in the
analysis of where he went wrong right
but as my girlfriend said it's just
inside with this video she said well you
really haven't said a whole lot about
how open relationships can go right what
can be positive about them what could be
good about them and by the way my
marriage to my first wife was indeed an
open relationship I mean for better and
it do us I was about to say for better
for us
I came said just for better period it
was just that was a completely positive
aspect of that relationship in my
opinion looking back on it now so I do
at least have the experience of making
that open relationship work and I have
experienced me this relationship work so
it's not merely abstract and
philosophical murmurs what do I think
initiate is doing wrong most
fundamentally and
most generally well okay there mm-hmm
there are two aspects to that this video
is supposed to be positive rather than
negative you know one is I think this
guy he's really just utterly lacks the
humility and maturity to love anyone and
to communicate things in terms of love
and that shows most of all in the
aftermath when these relationships end
almost every time and it doesn't matter
but the age of the woman some of these
women were older someone's been yet
relatives women who are over 20 and so
on and the minute their relationship
ends he's coming on YouTube and
denouncing these people and hating them
and defaming really serious defamation
really blackening their character saying
they're a terrible person saying they
have terrible hygiene so and so forth
and it's like bro you really love this
woman
okay and he'll he'll admit that himself
he breaks down weeping and says that
also he also says that he was in love
with these people and so on and dude you
know take her huh with all of her
positive qualities and her negative
qualities you chose her you fell in love
with her it's on you so there was just
no room for this blackening and
defamation character no that's a symptom
of the problem with it it's a and that's
a symptom of his immaturity of how
self-centered he is how short-term is
thinking is of how I think you can say
genuinely exploited if he is you know
really should other people meaning that
he just wants to use them for his own
gratification and then as soon as he
discards them he's like a very small
child throwing away a toy with contempt
that no longer amuses him it's a very
disturbing you know side of his
character but again I'm here discussing
this not to just condemn him or
something not to call him a monster but
that's kind of what can we learn from
this so another kind of subtly
disturbing element of this is when he
speaks positively of these women which
is rare it's mostly denunciation and
defamation that you get from the guy but
when he speaks positively of them what
does he have to say what's what's
positive and you find him saying things
like when he first met Billy what he
really appreciated about her was that
they played video games together
they played Earth Defense Force together
he has really positive memories of that
and you know he hadn't played earth
defense forced anyone else and his his
wife no husband you know really didn't
really wasn't into that particular
feeling so he really appreciated the
time he spent playing earth defense
words this girl in other cases it's very
clear that he had nothing in common with
these women absolutely nothing they were
they were simply a girl with a pretty
face on the internet there was
absolutely nothing else in common there
now I want to be clear it's not illegal
it's not illegal to be shallow and
there's never gonna be a law in any
culture anywhere in the world saying
that you can't be shallow like not even
I can't even think of writing a science
fiction novel about a parallel universe
but the government decides to be there
are some people both men and women
straight and gay all they care about is
a pretty face and you know what my role
in this video is to tell you that you
really ought you really ought to care
about more than a pretty face you really
ought to care about more than physical
beauty and I think that is the most
fundamental profound and important thing
to making an open relationship work
because the same thing that makes a
close relationship work right so you
guys notice my girlfriend is now 27
years old I'm 41
alright it's a huge age gap why was it
worth doing why was it worth taking the
risk why was it worth struggling to make
the relationship work for years it's
been a look oby Blum with you it's been
damaging for me I would really say I
have endured a lot of psychological
damage this relationship really of topic
for another video
okay I've had a lot of sorrow and a lot
of agony and a lot of damage what was
justification that can never be
justified by a pretty face right you're
never going to endure misery for others
and self-sacrifice and do things to help
them and do things
educate them and do things to help their
whatever it is you're never going to
endure all of the bad things in a
relationship and you're never going to
commit yourself to working hard to help
others new from your from your part the
kind of self-sacrificing good things you
are never going to do that for a pretty
face a pretty face it's never gonna be
enough and a guy like ignition totally
thoughtlessly like he's not thinking
about the consequences of - you know he
kind of demonstrates that he kind of
proves that point in a weird way right
because with all these women he wants
sex with them he also wants to kind of
exploit them as his live-in babysitter
which another really dark element of it
that they move in and take care of his
kids and sit in his couch and play video
games but that is it he's not in any way
giving and positive and supporting and
loving there's there is nothing else
dude he's not capable and those because
that's all he values about them that's
all the common ground they've got now
you know my perspective is it's his
fault because he chose them you know and
I said that now years ago with Billy
it's like look dude it doesn't matter
that she has a history as a drug user
because you chose her you knew that
about her and you chose her you know
what I mean doesn't matter she was I
think a high school dropout there so
this litany of moral faults moral and
intellectual faulty moment she's stupid
everything yeah I am you chose her you
committed to love her and support her
and build a life with her and stuff so
it's on you you knew all this bad stuff
negative throwing it back in her face
again it's like this child throwing a
tantrum and throwing away a toy this toy
isn't fun anymore I don't want to really
be mad at the toy for failing to amuse
you this very shallow very why endure
all this suffering and misery with
Melissa it's because we really have
meaningful common ground okay we have
things in common that aren't just
personal traits they're not just
adjectives that describe us they're
actually ambitions we're looking forward
to the future the type of work we want
to do have a difference you want to make
in the world okay so again one example
just being brief here one obvious
example is veganism right being vegan
isn't just an adjective doesn't just
describe me does just describe my diet
right it's tied to a whole lot of
concerns and feelings and sensitivities
it's also tied to positive aspirations
when you look at the future what I want
to do what kind of world I want to live
in
in fact I'd say there are many many
others you guys probably know I'm almost
obsessive about the history of genocide
slavery colonialism the way Kant of
Canada the United States Australia these
types of countries were really created
by genocide last night it was talking on
the phone with that for about an hour
with a friend allocates it comes a full
time you know it really is something
very important what my girlfriend also
shares that okay that's not just the way
we view history it's also the way we
view the present and our role in this
culture and the way we look at the
future it shapes you this is meaningful
common ground okay you will stay
together and you will work together and
you'll have a meaningful relationship
because you have those things in common
a pretty the prettiest face imaginable
is never going to be pretty enough it's
never gonna justify any of that okay I
just think of this is a random
comparison but it's true I would say the
same thing about money okay whether it's
a woman who's with a man for his money
or a man with the one the money will
never be enough it will never fulfill
you it will never compensate you for the
denigration you go through in a
relationship the sense of humiliation
and upset and heartbreak and second
lecture all the things you endure right
the money you can't say oh well but he's
got money or but she's got money the
money will never or compensate you for
that it will never be enough right and I
will take a further step if you guys
watch the channel you know I have an
extremely good sex life even so the sex
will never be enough sex alone the the
best sex imaginable the best sex
possible on planet earth it's both that
the sex will never be meaningful enough
and you know what I mean this you will
never be shallow enough no matter how
hard you try to be shallow and tell
yourself that you only care about a
pretty face and you only care about
money and you only care about having
great sex you don't you care about all
kinds of things you care about your own
dignity your own pride your own sense of
leading a meaningful life your
objectives to make the world a better
place
even if
you think you don't I mean trust me guys
who just spend their whole lives playing
football and stuff all of those guys
have some kind of sense of moral purpose
and mission in their lives that's
integral to their own sense of dignity
you know they have their own cultural
social religious political values that
make them who they are those values may
not be challenged often enough for them
to really come out and voice them
explain that to you but sure so I just
say everyone has their own sense of
dignity and so on and that's gonna get
trampled on in everybody's gonna get
challenged it's gonna get impinged upon
okay and when you're talking about an
open relationship then it's gonna get
challenged and impinge upon from
multiple directions at the same time
you're gonna be dealing with stresses
and bruised egos and unexpected you know
you're gonna be dealing with heartbreak
on at least a triangular basis instead
of just a two-sided pieces of the
equation and again we can learn from an
essence example someone who's very naive
might look and say well okay right one
guy two girls they're all busy taking
care of the kids they got a good income
from YouTube what's the problem what
indeed is the problem the problem is not
that a nishan is a monster the problem
is that he is human all too human and
you get to see the tragedy of human
nature play out in these relationships
okay so my my positive message about
having a great sex life whether it's an
open relationship sex life or it's a
closed relationship monogamous sex life
really comes down to the idea that when
you're when you're pursuing sexual
gratification your top priority should
not be sexual gratification
does that sound surreal I don't think it
is at all I think you know you should be
someone going to a conference of other
people who study ancient Greek
philosophy saying wow I want to meet
people who really have something in
common with me whether something to do
with ancient Greek philosophy in this
case right maybe they're gonna be male
and maybe they're gonna be female and
maybe we're gonna be just friends and
maybe we're gonna fall in love and maybe
you know you say hey look this is my
interest this is my aspiration this is
my
ambition in life and I want to meet
people who share these values or share
these ambitions or share this outlook
and maybe some of them are going to
sleep with me and some of them might be
a one-night stand and then later you
become just friends or some of the might
be just friends and ten years from now
you have sex you know it's like hey this
is this is what I care about like this
is who I am and I want to meet people
who really overlap with that Amin boy
and you know what then your memories of
them will not be of sitting on the couch
playing video games even if you've
played video games that won't be the
meaningful thing in your direction you
know you'll have all this substantive
meaningful stuff that drew you together
that keep you keep you together they're
the basis for the fresh of the basis for
the sexual relationship right and any
relationship you enter into whether it
be open or closed is a judgment you're
passing on yourself
okay I once challenged a friend of mine
this is years ago and he was the guy was
older than me but he was a lot well he
was a lot less on game when it came to
relationships and I challenged it was
said to him in your mind what is the
difference between being with a good
woman and a bad woman a woman who was
not what what does it mean to you
alright I was challenging him because
it's like look this really isn't about
sex if it were about sex you would be
willing to sleep with any prostitute you
find attractive any stripper anyone
again this is relative to what he thinks
is bad any woman you judge to be bad
that guy he hated everyone who had
tattoos it was just a personal thing
anyone with that too as he just thought
was an idiot and you could never be with
a woman of tattoos you wouldn't care if
a woman had tattoos you know whatever
all these things that make someone
better let's go to another extreme if
you if it was about sex you'd be willing
to have you'd be willing to sleep with
someone who's an Orthodox Muslim
Orthodox Christian someone who has
totally different religious and moral
views from you that I rank about with
right if it's about sex that's just a
sex it's not right the reason why you
want to sleep with a good woman as you
think of it is because who you sleep
with is about who you really are it's
passing
judgment on you okay
this is shallow and it's deep at the
same time back when I was really deep
into studying history of the Vietnam War
but especially in Laos and Cambodia I
remember it made to a friend of mine I
met an attractive American woman white
white American woman doesn't matter and
you know she was interested in trying to
see if leggo would fit into DUPLO if you
know what I mean and I said to this
friend of mine at a time I was reading
all this stuff about crimes against
humanity committed by the American army
and so it was so deep into this stuff I
said you know what I really don't know
if I can be in a relationship with an
American like this you know I really
would feel embarrassed you know living
here in Laos living with the bomb
craters living and going there's every
day I walk past the special Hospital for
people who have one leg because the
Americans blew up their play I was
really limited it's like I just don't
know if I could be in a rush it what
it's the same thing why do you want to
be with a good woman okay because it's
judgment on me right it's Who I am if
I'm walking around holding her arm you
know arm in arm yeah this is my
girlfriend she's American her father is
in the US Marine Corps her brother is
fighting in Iraq right now and she's
let's just say hypothetically she's
Republican and pro pro Army and Pro
bombing what's so different you know if
that's my lady if that's it's a judgment
on me right our ideas of good and bad
and so on you know pervade this whole
this whole experience of sexuality all
right so yeah I guess fundamentally you
could say I'm a kind of optimist
precisely because I believe sex is never
only about sex all right it's always an
inevitably about your moral values your
highest aspiration the positive impact
you want to make in the world and for
that reason I think everyone can have a
really meaningful sex life even if
you're ugly or even if the people in
your open relationship or are ugly too
right living in a world dominated by
Instagram and glossy magazines and
movies and so on it
may seem to you that having a pretty
face is the most important thing in the
world but it's not what's really
important is having a meaningful
connection with people so that when
you're sitting on the couch or doing
something more meaningful than just
playing video games or even if you do
play video games once in a while there's
that depth and gravitas of the common
ground you have your common aspirations
the way you the way you look at the
world all right you get to choose who
you want to be and you get to choose who
you want to be with and inevitably those
people you share your life with
intimately sexually profoundly all right
they hold up a mirror in which you see
yourself and they offer a constant sense
of analysis and criticism and outside
objective opinion and an outside
subjective opinion on what it is you're
doing with your life and what you're
doing wrong right you sleep with your
own harshest critics okay the people who
know what you're doing you know they
know whether or not you failed that test
because you didn't do your homework in a
way that your professors never will they
know your motivations and they know the
outcomes of your efforts um you know but
that's who you sleep with whether you're
in an open relationship or a close
relationship so you have to get to grips
with the more profound motivations that
are always at work beneath the surface
of your sexuality there's human
sexuality in terms of how we've evolved
and we live in the society today it has
never resembled clicking on a Twitter
profile it's never resemble clicking on
an Instagram profile or clicking through
a tinder or tumblr or any of these
dating things all right
human relationships are about looking
into someone else's eyes and knowing
that they do not see you the way that
you see yourself